SwiftPackageManager.md, before:

# Swift Package Manager for Firebase **Beta**

## Introduction

Starting with the 6.31.0 release, Firebase supports installation via [Swift
Package Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/) in Beta status. Exiting Beta is targeted for
the 8.0.0 release.

## Requirements

- Requires Xcode 12.5
- Analytics requires clients to add `-ObjC` linker option.
- See [Package.swift](Package.swift) for supported platform versions.

## Limitations

- Analytics is only supported for iOS and cannot be used in apps that support other platforms.
- Performance is not yet available.
- watchOS support is available for Auth, Crashlytics, Messaging, Realtime Database, RemoteConfig,
  and Storage.

## Installation

If you've previously used CocoaPods, remove them from the project with `pod deintegrate`.

### In Xcode

Install Firebase via Swift Package Manager:

<img src="docs/resources/SPMAddPackage.png">

Select the Firebase GitHub repository - `https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk.git`:

<img src="docs/resources/SPMChoose.png">

Select the version.

Note: The Swift Package Manager distribution continues to be in beta even though it now
supports standard Swift Package Manager versioning.

<img src="docs/resources/SPMSelect.png">

Choose the Firebase products that you want installed in your app.

<img src="docs/resources/SPMProducts.png">

If you've installed FirebaseAnalytics, Add the `-ObjC` option to `Other Linker Flags`
in the `Build Settings` tab.

<img src="docs/resources/SPMObjC.png">

If you're using FirebaseCrashlytics, you can use
`${BUILD_DIR%Build/*}/SourcePackages/checkouts/firebase-ios-sdk/Crashlytics/run`
as the run script that allows Xcode to upload your project's dSYM files.

Another option is to use the
[upload-symbols](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/raw/master/Crashlytics/upload-symbols)
script. Place it in the directory where your `.xcodeproj` file lives,
eg. `scripts/upload-symbols`, and make sure that the file is executable:
`chmod +x scripts/upload-symbols`.
This script can be used to manually upload dSYM files (for usage notes and
additional instructions, run with the `--help` parameter).

### Alternatively, add Firebase to a `Package.swift` manifest

To integrate via a `Package.swift` manifest instead of Xcode, you can add
Firebase to your dependencies array of your package with:

```
dependencies: [
  // Substitute X.Y with the version of Firebase you want.
  .package(name: "Firebase",
           url: "https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk.git",
           .branch("X.Y-spm-beta")),

  // Any other dependencies you have...
],
```

Then in any target that depends on a Firebase product, add it to the `dependencies`
array of that target:

```
.target(
    name: "MyTargetName",
    dependencies: [
      // The product name you need. In this example, FirebaseAuth.
      .product(name: "FirebaseAuth", package: "Firebase"),
    ]
),
```

## Questions and Issues

Please provide any feedback via a [GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/issues/new?template=bug_report.md).

See current open Swift Package Manager issues
[here](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/labels/Swift%20Package%20Manager).

Commit message:

Mark SwiftPM support as Official. (#8055)
* Mark SwiftPM support as Official.

This is alongside the 8.0.0 release - officially commiting to support
of SwiftPM as a release mechanism for Firebase.

* CHANGELOG update.

* Better phrasing for release note

SwiftPackageManager.md, after:

# Swift Package Manager for Firebase

## Introduction

Starting with the 8.0.0 release, Firebase officially supports installation via [Swift
Package Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/).

Prior to version 8.0.0 (starting with version 6.31.0) support was in Beta.

## Requirements

- Requires Xcode 12.5
- Analytics requires clients to add `-ObjC` linker option.
- See [Package.swift](Package.swift) for supported platform versions.

## Limitations

- Analytics is only supported for iOS and cannot be used in apps that support other platforms.
- Performance is not yet available.
- watchOS support is available for Auth, Crashlytics, Messaging, Realtime Database, RemoteConfig,
  and Storage.

## Installation

If you've previously used CocoaPods, remove them from the project with `pod deintegrate`.

### In Xcode

Install Firebase via Swift Package Manager:

<img src="docs/resources/SPMAddPackage.png">

Select the Firebase GitHub repository - `https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk.git`:

<img src="docs/resources/SPMChoose.png">

Select the version.

Note: The Swift Package Manager distribution continues to be in beta even though it now
supports standard Swift Package Manager versioning.

<img src="docs/resources/SPMSelect.png">

Choose the Firebase products that you want installed in your app.

<img src="docs/resources/SPMProducts.png">

If you've installed FirebaseAnalytics, Add the `-ObjC` option to `Other Linker Flags`
in the `Build Settings` tab.

<img src="docs/resources/SPMObjC.png">

If you're using FirebaseCrashlytics, you can use
`${BUILD_DIR%Build/*}/SourcePackages/checkouts/firebase-ios-sdk/Crashlytics/run`
as the run script that allows Xcode to upload your project's dSYM files.

Another option is to use the
[upload-symbols](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/raw/master/Crashlytics/upload-symbols)
script. Place it in the directory where your `.xcodeproj` file lives,
eg. `scripts/upload-symbols`, and make sure that the file is executable:
`chmod +x scripts/upload-symbols`.
This script can be used to manually upload dSYM files (for usage notes and
additional instructions, run with the `--help` parameter).

### Alternatively, add Firebase to a `Package.swift` manifest

To integrate via a `Package.swift` manifest instead of Xcode, you can add
Firebase to your dependencies array of your package with:

```
dependencies: [
  // Substitute X.Y with the version of Firebase you want.
  .package(name: "Firebase",
           url: "https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk.git",
           .branch("X.Y-spm-beta")),

  // Any other dependencies you have...
],
```

Then in any target that depends on a Firebase product, add it to the `dependencies`
array of that target:

```
.target(
    name: "MyTargetName",
    dependencies: [
      // The product name you need. In this example, FirebaseAuth.
      .product(name: "FirebaseAuth", package: "Firebase"),
    ]
),
```

## Questions and Issues

Please provide any feedback via a [GitHub
Issue](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/issues/new?template=bug_report.md).

See current open Swift Package Manager issues
[here](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk/labels/Swift%20Package%20Manager).
