FirebaseSessions/README.md, before:

# Firebase Sessions SDK

## Prerequisites
Follow the [Main Firebase Readme](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk#development)

## Development
### Generating the Project and Test Project

 - `generate_project.sh` uses [cocoapods-generate](https://github.com/square/cocoapods-generate) to create an Xcode Workspace that has the SDK installed for all the SDK's supported platforms. This is useful for test-based development.
 - `generate_testapp.sh` generates and opens a test app with the Sessions SDK included. This is useful for developing the Sessions SDK against a real app.

### Debugging

### Command Line Arguments
You can access command line parameters by following: Press `CMD-Shift-,` => Run => Arguments.

 - `-FIRSessionsDebugEvents` will print Session Start events to the console for debugging purposes.

### Updating the Proto
#### Prerequesites
To update the Sessions Proto, Protobuf is required. To install run:

```
brew install protobuf
```

#### Procedure
 1. Follow the directions in `sessions.proto` for updating it
 1. Run the following to regenerate the nanopb source files: `./FirebaseSessions/ProtoSupport/generate_protos.sh`
 1. Update the SDK to use the new proto fields

Commit message:

Add steps to configure different environments for the test app. (#10491)

FirebaseSessions/README.md, after:

# Firebase Sessions SDK

## Prerequisites
Follow the [Main Firebase Readme](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk#development)

## Development
### Generating the Project and Test Project

 - `generate_project.sh` uses [cocoapods-generate](https://github.com/square/cocoapods-generate) to create an Xcode Workspace that has the SDK installed for all the SDK's supported platforms. This is useful for test-based development.
 - `generate_testapp.sh` generates and opens a test app with the Sessions SDK included. This is useful for developing the Sessions SDK against a real app.

### Switching dev environments - Autopush/Staging/Prod

SDK is configured to send events to different environments. To enforce different environments for sending events, we use an environment variable to configure the specific environment. Since environment variables are enforced in the context of the App, use the TestApp to send events to different environments after using the following configuration steps.

- Enter "Edit scheme" - On the title bar menu "Product" > "Scheme" > "Edit Scheme"
- Ensure "Run" is selected on the left tab
- On the right hand side, choose the "Arguments" tab
- Under the "Environment Variables", add the following variable to configure the environment
   - For "AUTOPUSH" - "FirebaseSessionsRunEnvironment" -> "AUTOPUSH"/"autopush"
   - For "STAGING" - "FirebaseSessionsRunEnvironment" -> "STAGING"/"staging"
   - For "PROD" - "FirebaseSessionsRunEnvironment" -> "PROD"/"prod"

NOTE: Default is PROD. Not configuring any flags would mean the events are sent to PROD environment.

### Debugging

### Command Line Arguments
You can access command line parameters by following: Press `CMD-Shift-,` => Run => Arguments.

 - `-FIRSessionsDebugEvents` will print Session Start events to the console for debugging purposes.

### Updating the Proto
#### Prerequesites
To update the Sessions Proto, Protobuf is required. To install run:

```
brew install protobuf
```

#### Procedure
 1. Follow the directions in `sessions.proto` for updating it
 1. Run the following to regenerate the nanopb source files: `./FirebaseSessions/ProtoSupport/generate_protos.sh`
 1. Update the SDK to use the new proto fields
